In the last video, we tried to assign this current user property to the request object, and TypeScript
is unhappy about that because TypeScript has a type definition file for express that defines exactly
what a request is.
And that type definition file says that a request does not have a property of current user.
So we need to somehow augment the definition of what a request is.
That's exactly what we're going to do.
We're going to add in an additional property to the type definition of what a request is.
So let me show you how we're going to do that.
To get started, we're not going to worry about the current user stuff just yet.
Instead, I want to go back up to the line right above it.
Whenever we call verify, we are going to get back.
If we mouse over payload either a string or an object, that's going to be whatever information is stored
inside the JSON Web token.
The first thing we're going to do is apply a more precise definition of exactly what we are getting
back from this verify call.
So remember, we are going to get back the payload we had stored inside of our JSON web token.
And as we recall, inside that payload, we have an ID property that is a string and an email that is
a string.
So we're going to first create an interface that precisely describes exactly what payload is.
So let's do that back up here.
At the very top of the file, I'm going to add in a new interface of user payload.
And I'm going to say that this has an ID that is a string and an email that is a string.
And then going to use this interface and teletype script that what we get back out of this verify call
is going to be equal to this interface or it's going to have the same structure as that interface.
So to do so at the very end of the JWT Verify line, I'm going to write out as user payload.
So now if I mouse over payload.
TypeScript understands.
Oh, och.
Coming out of that verify call, we get back an object that will have an ID that is a string and an
email that is a string.
So now if we go down to where we have a current user, we still have that same error that says property
current user doesn't exist on there.
But now we have clarified or at least added in a little bit more information about what we are trying
to assign to that property.
If we mouse over payload, we have added in enough information for TypeScript to understand that we
are trying to assign something of type user payload to recurrent user.
So now we're going to add in or augment the definition of what a request to object is.
We're going to tell TypeScript that it should have a current user property that can optionally be defined,
and if we define it, it will be of type user payload because that's what we are trying to assign to
it.
Let me show you how we are going to do that.
Once again, back up at the top.
We're going to write out a little bit of mystery code up here.
I say mystery because it's going to be a little bit strange.
We will say declare global.
Namespace.
Express.
Interface request.
And then we will say current user with a question mark.
Is of type user payload like so.
So this is how we can reach into an existing type definition and make a modification to it.
Notice that we did not have to extend.
An existing interface or anything like that.
We did not have to do that.
If we ever want to modify an existing interface or add in some new properties to it, we just write
out the same interface, same exact name, and then we add in whatever properties we want to augment
the existing interface with.
So in this case, we are telling TypeScript that inside of the Express project find the interface of
request that was already defined inside there, but take that interface that was already created and
we want to add in this additional property to it.
So we want to have a property called current user that might be defined.
So it may or may not be defined.
And the reason it may or may not is because the user might not be logged in.
Of course.
But if we do define the current user property on the request object, we are going to set it to type
user payload.
So now if we go back down to the bottom, we'll see that the error has gone away.
If I mouse over recurrent user, we see whenever we try to access current user, we're going to get
back either user payload or undefined and that's it.
Okay.
So we've now got this middleware put together.
Any time a user comes into a route with this current user middleware being applied to it, this thing
is going to attempt to find whether or not the user is logged in.
If they are not, we're just going to continue on, in which case current user will be undefined.
But if they have a JSON web token, we will try to extract the payload and then set it on current user
so it can be used by our other middleware or the actual request handler.
So now to actually test this out, I'm going to save the file and go back over to our current user route
handler.
So remember, we have two different files called current user.
I'm now inside of the root handler called current user.
So we've essentially moved a lot of the logic that was inside of here over to that middleware.
Let's import the middleware.
We're going to wire it up to this root handler, and then we should be able to remove a lot of the logic
inside of here and just rely upon the middleware instead.
So at the very top, I'm going to import.
Current user.
From.
Up one directory middleware current user.
Then inside of my root handler right after that URL, I'll put in current user.
So that's my middleware.
So now inside the request handler itself, well, we are doing the check to see whether or not the user
is logged in inside the middleware.
So we don't really need that.
We are doing the job to decode inside the middleware.
We don't need pretty much any of that stuff that's inside there.
All we really need is to take the information off that current user property on a request object.
So we will just do a red dot sent of rec dot current user.
Now remember, current user is going to be the actual JSON payload.
In our previous implementation that we had just a moment ago, we actually, in the response had a nested
object.
So we sent back an object that said current user and it had a value of whatever the payload was.
So we should probably just make sure that we keep that same kind of structure right there.
So in other words, we're going to end up with an object in here of current user.
And we'll say recurrent user.
The other thing that we might want to be concerned about.
In the version we had just a moment ago.
If the user was not logged in, we sent back a current user of null.
Whereas right now if the user is not logged in, this is going to be undefined.
So we might want to put in recurrent user or null so we don't send back undefined.
Instead we will send back null.
Okay.
So long story short, let's save that as is.
We'll go back over to Postman and do a quick test.
So back over here.
I don't recall whether or not I'm logged in right now.
I think I'm not logged in.
So let's go ahead and send this off my get request to current user.
Looks like I am not logged in.
I'm going to go back over to my tab that allows me to sign in to the application, so I'll send that
off.
Now, in theory I am logged in, so if I go back over to their Get request tab, I'll send that again.
And there we go.
Exact same thing we had previously.
Awesome.
So now the benefit to this middleware is, of course, any time that we have a route handler that needs
to know who the current user is, well, we'll just make use of this middleware.
Now, of course, we did define this as a middleware inside of our AUTH project, but I had said previously
that we are probably going to want to use this for other services inside of our project.
So we probably are going to want to extract this middleware at some point in time or at least somehow
figure out how to re-use it among other services that we create.
But we will handle that in just a little bit.
So for right now, let's take a quick break.
We're going to come back to the next video and put together our other middleware.